README.md, before:

# React Native Fingerprint Scanner

[![React Native Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/react--native-latest-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://facebook.github.io/react-native/releases)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-native-fingerprint-scanner.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-fingerprint-scanner)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-native-fingerprint-scanner.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-fingerprint-scanner)

React Native Fingerprint Scanner is a [React Native](http://facebook.github.io/react-native/) library for authenticating users with Fingerprint (TouchID).

### iOS Version
The usage of the TouchID is based on a framework, named **Local Authentication**.

It provides a **Default View** that prompts the user to place a finger to the iPhone’s button for scanning.

<div>
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/ios-availability.png" height="600">
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/ios-authentication.gif" height="600">
</div>

### Android Version
Using an expandable Android Fingerprint API library, which combines [Samsung](http://developer.samsung.com/galaxy/pass#) and [MeiZu](http://open-wiki.flyme.cn/index.php?title=%E6%8C%87%E7%BA%B9%E8%AF%86%E5%88%ABAPI)'s official Fingerprint API.

Samsung and MeiZu's Fingerprint SDK supports most devices which system versions less than Android 6.0.

<div>
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/android-availability.png" height="600">
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/android-authentication.gif" height="600">
</div>

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Example](#example)
- [API](#api)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

`$ npm install react-native-fingerprint-scanner --save`

### Automatic Configuration

`$ react-native link react-native-fingerprint-scanner`

### Manual Configuration

#### iOS

1. In XCode, in the project navigator, right click `Libraries` ➜ `Add Files to [your project's name]`
2. Go to `node_modules` ➜ `react-native-fingerprint-scanner` and add `ReactNativeFingerprintScanner.xcodeproj`
3. In XCode, in the project navigator, select your project. Add `libReactNativeFingerprintScanner.a` to your project's `Build Phases` ➜ `Link Binary With Libraries`
4. Run your project (`Cmd+R`)

#### Android

1. Open up `android/app/src/main/java/[...]/MainActivity.java`
  - Add `import com.hieuvp.fingerprint.ReactNativeFingerprintScannerPackage;` to the imports at the top of the file
  - Add `new ReactNativeFingerprintScannerPackage()` to the list returned by the `getPackages()` method
2. Append the following lines to `android/settings.gradle`:
  	```
  	include ':react-native-fingerprint-scanner'
  	project(':react-native-fingerprint-scanner').projectDir = new File(rootProject.projectDir, '../node_modules/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/android')
  	```
3. Insert the following lines inside the dependencies block in `android/app/build.gradle`:
  	```
    compile project(':react-native-fingerprint-scanner')
  	```

### Extra Configuration

1. Make sure the following versions are all correct in `android/app/build.gradle`
    ```
    android {
        compileSdkVersion 25
        buildToolsVersion "25.0.3"
    ...
        defaultConfig {
          targetSdkVersion 25
    ```

2. Add necessary rules to `android/app/proguard-rules.pro`
    ```
    # MeiZu Fingerprint

    -keep class com.fingerprints.service.** { *; }
    -dontwarn com.fingerprints.service.**

    # Samsung Fingerprint

    -keep class com.samsung.android.sdk.** { *; }
    -dontwarn com.samsung.android.sdk.**
    ```

## Example

[Example Source Code](https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/tree/master/examples)

**iOS Implementation**
```javascript
import React, { Component, PropTypes } from 'react';
import { AlertIOS } from 'react-native';
import FingerprintScanner from 'react-native-fingerprint-scanner';

class FingerprintPopup extends Component {

  componentDidMount() {
    FingerprintScanner
      .authenticate({ description: 'Scan your fingerprint on the device scanner to continue' })
      .then(() => {
        this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
        AlertIOS.alert('Authenticated successfully');
      })
      .catch((error) => {
        this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
        AlertIOS.alert(error.message);
      });
  }

  render() {
    return false;
  }
}

FingerprintPopup.propTypes = {
  handlePopupDismissed: PropTypes.func.isRequired,
};

export default FingerprintPopup;
```

**Android Implementation**
```javascript
import React, { Component, PropTypes } from 'react';
import {
  Alert,
  Image,
  Text,
  TouchableOpacity,
  View,
  ViewPropTypes
} from 'react-native';
import FingerprintScanner from 'react-native-fingerprint-scanner';

import ShakingText from './ShakingText.component';
import styles from './FingerprintPopup.component.styles';

class FingerprintPopup extends Component {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = { errorMessage: undefined };
  }

  componentDidMount() {
    FingerprintScanner
      .authenticate({ onAttempt: this.handleAuthenticationAttempted })
      .then(() => {
        this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
        Alert.alert('Fingerprint Authentication', 'Authenticated successfully');
      })
      .catch((error) => {
        this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message });
        this.description.shake();
      });
  }

  componentWillUnmount() {
    FingerprintScanner.release();
  }

  handleAuthenticationAttempted = (error) => {
    this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message });
    this.description.shake();
  };

  render() {
    const { errorMessage } = this.state;
    const { style, handlePopupDismissed } = this.props;

    return (
      <View style={styles.container}>
        <View style={[styles.contentContainer, style]}>

          <Image
            style={styles.logo}
            source={require('./assets/finger_print.png')}
          />

          <Text style={styles.heading}>
            Fingerprint{'\n'}Authentication
          </Text>
          <ShakingText
            ref={(instance) => { this.description = instance; }}
            style={styles.description(!!errorMessage)}>
            {errorMessage || 'Scan your fingerprint on the\ndevice scanner to continue'}
          </ShakingText>

          <TouchableOpacity
            style={styles.buttonContainer}
            onPress={handlePopupDismissed}
          >
            <Text style={styles.buttonText}>
              BACK TO MAIN
            </Text>
          </TouchableOpacity>

        </View>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

FingerprintPopup.propTypes = {
  style: ViewPropTypes.style,
  handlePopupDismissed: PropTypes.func.isRequired,
};

export default FingerprintPopup;
```

## API

### `isSensorAvailable()`: (Android, iOS)
Checks if Fingerprint Scanner is able to be used by now.

- Returns a `Promise`

```javascript
componentDidMount() {
  FingerprintScanner
    .isSensorAvailable()
    .catch(error => this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message }));
}
```

### `authenticate({ description, fallbackEnabled })`: (iOS)
Starts Fingerprint authentication on iOS.

- Returns a `Promise`
- `description: String` - the string to explain the request for user authentication.
- `fallbackEnabled: Boolean` - default to `true`, whether to display fallback button (e.g. Enter Password).

```javascript
componentDidMount() {
  FingerprintScanner
    .authenticate({ description: 'Scan your fingerprint on the device scanner to continue' })
    .then(() => {
      this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
      AlertIOS.alert('Authenticated successfully');
    })
    .catch((error) => {
      this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
      AlertIOS.alert(error.message);
    });
}
```

### `authenticate({ onAttempt })`: (Android)
Starts Fingerprint authentication on Android.

- Returns a `Promise`
- `onAttempt: Function` - a callback function when users are trying to scan their fingerprint but failed.

```javascript
componentDidMount() {
  FingerprintScanner
    .authenticate({ onAttempt: this.handleAuthenticationAttempted })
    .then(() => {
      this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
      Alert.alert('Fingerprint Authentication', 'Authenticated successfully');
    })
    .catch((error) => {
      this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message });
      this.description.shake();
    });
}
```

### `release()`: (Android)
Stops fingerprint scanner listener and optimizes memory.

- Returns a `Void`

```javascript
componentWillUnmount() {
  FingerprintScanner.release();
}
```

### `Errors`

| Name | Message |
|---|---|
| AuthenticationNotMatch | No match |
| AuthenticationFailed | Authentication was not successful because the user failed to provide valid credentials |
| UserCancel | Authentication was canceled by the user - e.g. the user tapped Cancel in the dialog |
| UserFallback | Authentication was canceled because the user tapped the fallback button (Enter Password) |
| SystemCancel | Authentication was canceled by system - e.g. if another application came to foreground while the authentication dialog was up |
| PasscodeNotSet | Authentication could not start because the passcode is not set on the device |
| FingerprintScannerNotAvailable | Authentication could not start because Fingerprint Scanner is not available on the device |
| FingerprintScannerNotEnrolled | Authentication could not start because Fingerprint Scanner has no enrolled fingers |
| FingerprintScannerUnknownError | Could not authenticate for an unknown reason |
| FingerprintScannerNotSupported | Device does not support Fingerprint Scanner |

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs(README): add biometry type

README.md, after:

# React Native Fingerprint Scanner

[![React Native Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/react--native-latest-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://facebook.github.io/react-native/releases)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-native-fingerprint-scanner.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-fingerprint-scanner)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-native-fingerprint-scanner.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-fingerprint-scanner)

React Native Fingerprint Scanner is a [React Native](http://facebook.github.io/react-native/) library for authenticating users with Fingerprint (TouchID).

### iOS Version
The usage of the TouchID is based on a framework, named **Local Authentication**.

It provides a **Default View** that prompts the user to place a finger to the iPhone’s button for scanning.

<div>
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/ios-availability.png" height="600">
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/ios-authentication.gif" height="600">
</div>

### Android Version
Using an expandable Android Fingerprint API library, which combines [Samsung](http://developer.samsung.com/galaxy/pass#) and [MeiZu](http://open-wiki.flyme.cn/index.php?title=%E6%8C%87%E7%BA%B9%E8%AF%86%E5%88%ABAPI)'s official Fingerprint API.

Samsung and MeiZu's Fingerprint SDK supports most devices which system versions less than Android 6.0.

<div>
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/android-availability.png" height="600">
<img src="https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/raw/master/screenshots/android-authentication.gif" height="600">
</div>

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Example](#example)
- [API](#api)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

`$ npm install react-native-fingerprint-scanner --save`

### Automatic Configuration

`$ react-native link react-native-fingerprint-scanner`

### Manual Configuration

#### iOS

1. In XCode, in the project navigator, right click `Libraries` ➜ `Add Files to [your project's name]`
2. Go to `node_modules` ➜ `react-native-fingerprint-scanner` and add `ReactNativeFingerprintScanner.xcodeproj`
3. In XCode, in the project navigator, select your project. Add `libReactNativeFingerprintScanner.a` to your project's `Build Phases` ➜ `Link Binary With Libraries`
4. Run your project (`Cmd+R`)

#### Android

1. Open up `android/app/src/main/java/[...]/MainActivity.java`
  - Add `import com.hieuvp.fingerprint.ReactNativeFingerprintScannerPackage;` to the imports at the top of the file
  - Add `new ReactNativeFingerprintScannerPackage()` to the list returned by the `getPackages()` method
2. Append the following lines to `android/settings.gradle`:
  	```
  	include ':react-native-fingerprint-scanner'
  	project(':react-native-fingerprint-scanner').projectDir = new File(rootProject.projectDir, '../node_modules/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/android')
  	```
3. Insert the following lines inside the dependencies block in `android/app/build.gradle`:
  	```
    compile project(':react-native-fingerprint-scanner')
  	```

### Extra Configuration

1. Make sure the following versions are all correct in `android/app/build.gradle`
    ```
    android {
        compileSdkVersion 25
        buildToolsVersion "25.0.3"
    ...
        defaultConfig {
          targetSdkVersion 25
    ```

2. Add necessary rules to `android/app/proguard-rules.pro`
    ```
    # MeiZu Fingerprint

    -keep class com.fingerprints.service.** { *; }
    -dontwarn com.fingerprints.service.**

    # Samsung Fingerprint

    -keep class com.samsung.android.sdk.** { *; }
    -dontwarn com.samsung.android.sdk.**
    ```

## Example

[Example Source Code](https://github.com/hieuvp/react-native-fingerprint-scanner/tree/master/examples)

**iOS Implementation**
```javascript
import React, { Component, PropTypes } from 'react';
import { AlertIOS } from 'react-native';
import FingerprintScanner from 'react-native-fingerprint-scanner';

class FingerprintPopup extends Component {

  componentDidMount() {
    FingerprintScanner
      .authenticate({ description: 'Scan your fingerprint on the device scanner to continue' })
      .then(() => {
        this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
        AlertIOS.alert('Authenticated successfully');
      })
      .catch((error) => {
        this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
        AlertIOS.alert(error.message);
      });
  }

  render() {
    return false;
  }
}

FingerprintPopup.propTypes = {
  handlePopupDismissed: PropTypes.func.isRequired,
};

export default FingerprintPopup;
```

**Android Implementation**
```javascript
import React, { Component, PropTypes } from 'react';
import {
  Alert,
  Image,
  Text,
  TouchableOpacity,
  View,
  ViewPropTypes
} from 'react-native';
import FingerprintScanner from 'react-native-fingerprint-scanner';

import ShakingText from './ShakingText.component';
import styles from './FingerprintPopup.component.styles';

class FingerprintPopup extends Component {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = { errorMessage: undefined };
  }

  componentDidMount() {
    FingerprintScanner
      .authenticate({ onAttempt: this.handleAuthenticationAttempted })
      .then(() => {
        this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
        Alert.alert('Fingerprint Authentication', 'Authenticated successfully');
      })
      .catch((error) => {
        this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message });
        this.description.shake();
      });
  }

  componentWillUnmount() {
    FingerprintScanner.release();
  }

  handleAuthenticationAttempted = (error) => {
    this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message });
    this.description.shake();
  };

  render() {
    const { errorMessage } = this.state;
    const { style, handlePopupDismissed } = this.props;

    return (
      <View style={styles.container}>
        <View style={[styles.contentContainer, style]}>

          <Image
            style={styles.logo}
            source={require('./assets/finger_print.png')}
          />

          <Text style={styles.heading}>
            Fingerprint{'\n'}Authentication
          </Text>
          <ShakingText
            ref={(instance) => { this.description = instance; }}
            style={styles.description(!!errorMessage)}>
            {errorMessage || 'Scan your fingerprint on the\ndevice scanner to continue'}
          </ShakingText>

          <TouchableOpacity
            style={styles.buttonContainer}
            onPress={handlePopupDismissed}
          >
            <Text style={styles.buttonText}>
              BACK TO MAIN
            </Text>
          </TouchableOpacity>

        </View>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

FingerprintPopup.propTypes = {
  style: ViewPropTypes.style,
  handlePopupDismissed: PropTypes.func.isRequired,
};

export default FingerprintPopup;
```

## API

### `isSensorAvailable()`: (Android, iOS)
Checks if Fingerprint Scanner is able to be used by now.

- Returns a `Promise<string>`
- `biometryType: String` - The type of biometric authentication supported by the device.
- `error: FingerprintScannerError { name, message }` - The reason of failure.

```javascript
componentDidMount() {
  FingerprintScanner
    .isSensorAvailable()
    .then(biometryType => this.setState({ biometryType }))
    .catch(error => this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message }));
}
```

### `authenticate({ description, fallbackEnabled })`: (iOS)
Starts Fingerprint authentication on iOS.

- Returns a `Promise`
- `description: String` - the string to explain the request for user authentication.
- `fallbackEnabled: Boolean` - default to `true`, whether to display fallback button (e.g. Enter Password).

```javascript
componentDidMount() {
  FingerprintScanner
    .authenticate({ description: 'Scan your fingerprint on the device scanner to continue' })
    .then(() => {
      this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
      AlertIOS.alert('Authenticated successfully');
    })
    .catch((error) => {
      this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
      AlertIOS.alert(error.message);
    });
}
```

### `authenticate({ onAttempt })`: (Android)
Starts Fingerprint authentication on Android.

- Returns a `Promise`
- `onAttempt: Function` - a callback function when users are trying to scan their fingerprint but failed.

```javascript
componentDidMount() {
  FingerprintScanner
    .authenticate({ onAttempt: this.handleAuthenticationAttempted })
    .then(() => {
      this.props.handlePopupDismissed();
      Alert.alert('Fingerprint Authentication', 'Authenticated successfully');
    })
    .catch((error) => {
      this.setState({ errorMessage: error.message });
      this.description.shake();
    });
}
```

### `release()`: (Android)
Stops fingerprint scanner listener and optimizes memory.

- Returns a `Void`

```javascript
componentWillUnmount() {
  FingerprintScanner.release();
}
```

### `Types of Biometrics`

| Value | OS |
|---|---|
| Touch ID | iOS |
| Face ID | iOS |
| Fingerprint | Android |

### `Errors`

| Name | Message |
|---|---|
| AuthenticationNotMatch | No match |
| AuthenticationFailed | Authentication was not successful because the user failed to provide valid credentials |
| UserCancel | Authentication was canceled by the user - e.g. the user tapped Cancel in the dialog |
| UserFallback | Authentication was canceled because the user tapped the fallback button (Enter Password) |
| SystemCancel | Authentication was canceled by system - e.g. if another application came to foreground while the authentication dialog was up |
| PasscodeNotSet | Authentication could not start because the passcode is not set on the device |
| FingerprintScannerNotAvailable | Authentication could not start because Fingerprint Scanner is not available on the device |
| FingerprintScannerNotEnrolled | Authentication could not start because Fingerprint Scanner has no enrolled fingers |
| FingerprintScannerUnknownError | Could not authenticate for an unknown reason |
| FingerprintScannerNotSupported | Device does not support Fingerprint Scanner |

## License

MIT
